The Art of War by Sun Tzu

Chapter 1: Laying Plans
Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the state.
It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin.
Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.

The art of war is governed by five constant factors which must be taken
into account when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field.
These five factors are:
1. The Moral Law
2. Heaven
3. Earth
4. The Commander
5. Method and Discipline

The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler,
so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by danger.

Heaven signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons.

Earth comprises distances, great and small; danger and security;
open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death.

The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerity,
benevolence, courage, and strictness.

Method and discipline refer to the marshaling of the army,
the grading of ranks among officers, the maintenance of roads
by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.

Chapter 2: Waging War

In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots,
as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers,
with provisions enough to carry them a thousand miles,
the expenditure at home and at the front will reach a thousand ounces of silver per day.

There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.
Only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war can understand
the profitable way of carrying it on.

In war, the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won,
whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.

Chapter 3: Attack by Strategy

In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact.
To shatter and destroy it is not so good.

Thus the highest form of generalship is to defeat the enemy's plans.
The next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces.
The next is to attack the enemy's army in the field.
The worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities.

All warfare is based on deception.
Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable;
when using our forces, we must appear inactive;
when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away;
when far away, we must make him believe we are near.

If your opponent is temperamental, seek to irritate him.
Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.

If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him.
If he is in superior strength, evade him.
If your opponent is angry, try to irritate him.

The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.